DEPLOY.md, before:

# Deploying Conduit

> ## Getting help
>
> If you run into any problems while setting up Conduit, write an email to `timo@koesters.xyz`, ask us
> in `#conduit:fachschaften.org` or [open an issue on GitLab](https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/issues/new).

## Installing Conduit

Although you might be able to compile Conduit for Windows, we do recommend running it on a linux server. We therefore
only offer Linux binaries.

You may simply download the binary that fits your machine. Run `uname -m` to see what you need. Now copy the right url:

| CPU Architecture                            | Download stable version        | Download development version |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| x84_64 / amd64 (Most servers and computers) | [Download][x84_64-musl-master] | [Download][x84_64-musl-next] |
| armv6                                       | [Download][armv6-musl-master]  | [Download][armv6-musl-next]  |
| armv7 (e.g. Raspberry Pi by default)        | [Download][armv7-musl-master]  | [Download][armv7-musl-next]  |
| armv8 / aarch64                             | [Download][armv8-musl-master]  | [Download][armv8-musl-next]  |

[x84_64-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
[armv6-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv7-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv8-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
[x84_64-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
[armv6-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv7-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv8-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:aarch64-unknown-linux-musl

```bash
$ sudo wget -O /usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit <url>
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit
```

Alternatively, you may compile the binary yourself

```bash
$ sudo apt install libclang-dev build-essential
```

```bash
$ cargo build --release
```

Note that this currently requires Rust 1.50.

If you want to cross compile Conduit to another architecture, read the [Cross-Compile Guide](cross/README.md).

## Adding a Conduit user

While Conduit can run as any user it is usually better to use dedicated users for different services. This also allows
you to make sure that the file permissions are correctly set up.

In Debian you can use this command to create a Conduit user:

```bash
sudo adduser --system conduit --no-create-home
```

## Setting up a systemd service

Now we'll set up a systemd service for Conduit, so it's easy to start/stop Conduit and set it to autostart when your
server reboots. Simply paste the default systemd service you can find below into
`/etc/systemd/system/conduit.service`.

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Conduit Matrix Server
After=network.target

[Service]
Environment="CONDUIT_CONFIG=/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml"
User=conduit
Group=nogroup
Restart=always
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Finally, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

## Creating the Conduit configuration file

Now we need to create the Conduit's config file in `/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`. Paste this in **and take a moment
to read it. You need to change at least the server name.**

```toml
[global]
# The server_name is the name of this server. It is used as a suffix for user
# and room ids. Examples: matrix.org, conduit.rs
# The Conduit server needs to be reachable at https://your.server.name/ on port
# 443 (client-server) and 8448 (federation) OR you can create /.well-known
# files to redirect requests. See
# https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest#get-well-known-matrix-client
# and https://matrix.org/docs/spec/server_server/r0.1.4#get-well-known-matrix-server
# for more information

# YOU NEED TO EDIT THIS
#server_name = "your.server.name"

# This is the only directory where Conduit will save its data
database_path = "/var/lib/matrix-conduit/conduit_db"

# The port Conduit will be running on. You need to set up a reverse proxy in
# your web server (e.g. apache or nginx), so all requests to /_matrix on port
# 443 and 8448 will be forwarded to the Conduit instance running on this port
port = 6167

# Max size for uploads
max_request_size = 20_000_000 # in bytes

# Enables registration. If set to false, no users can register on this server.
allow_registration = true

# Disable encryption, so no new encrypted rooms can be created
# Note: existing rooms will continue to work
allow_encryption = true
allow_federation = true

trusted_servers = ["matrix.org"]

#max_concurrent_requests = 100 # How many requests Conduit sends to other servers at the same time
#workers = 4 # default: cpu core count * 2

address = "127.0.0.1" # This makes sure Conduit can only be reached using the reverse proxy

# The total amount of memory that the database will use.
#db_cache_capacity_mb = 200
```

## Setting the correct file permissions

As we are using a Conduit specific user we need to allow it to read the config. To do that you can run this command on
Debian:

```bash
sudo chown -R conduit:nogroup /etc/matrix-conduit
```

If you use the default database path you also need to run this:

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/matrix-conduit/conduit_db
sudo chown -R conduit:nogroup /var/lib/matrix-conduit/conduit_db
```

## Setting up the Reverse Proxy

This depends on whether you use Apache, Nginx or another web server.

### Apache

Create `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/050-conduit.conf` and copy-and-paste this:

```apache
Listen 8448

<VirtualHost *:443 *:8448>

ServerName your.server.name # EDIT THIS

AllowEncodedSlashes NoDecode
ProxyPass /_matrix/ http://127.0.0.1:6167/_matrix/ nocanon
ProxyPassReverse /_matrix/ http://127.0.0.1:6167/_matrix/

</VirtualHost>
```

**You need to make some edits again.** When you are done, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl reload apache2
```

### Nginx

If you use Nginx and not Apache, add the following server section inside the http section of `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:443 ssl http2;
    listen 8448 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:8448 ssl http2;
    server_name your.server.name; # EDIT THIS
    merge_slashes off;

    location /_matrix/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:6167$request_uri;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        proxy_buffering off;
    }

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/fullchain.pem; # EDIT THIS
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/privkey.pem; # EDIT THIS
    ssl_trusted_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/chain.pem; # EDIT THIS
    include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf;
}
```

**You need to make some edits again.** When you are done, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## SSL Certificate

The easiest way to get an SSL certificate, if you don't have one already, is to install `certbot` and run this:

```bash
$ sudo certbot -d your.server.name
```

## You're done!

Now you can start Conduit with:

```bash
$ sudo systemctl start conduit
```

Set it to start automatically when your system boots with:

```bash
$ sudo systemctl enable conduit
```

## How do I know it works?

You can open <https://app.element.io>, enter your homeserver and try to register.

You can also use these commands as a quick health check.

```bash
$ curl https://your.server.name/_matrix/client/versions
$ curl https://your.server.name:8448/_matrix/client/versions
```

- To check if your server can talk with other homeservers, you can use the [Matrix Federation Tester](https://federationtester.matrix.org/)

# What's next?

## Audio/Video calls

For Audio/Video call functionality see the [TURN Guide](TURN.md).

## Appservices

If you want to set up an appservice, take a look at the [Appservice Guide](APPSERVICES.md).

Commit message:

docs: make all configs match

DEPLOY.md, after:

# Deploying Conduit

> ## Getting help
>
> If you run into any problems while setting up Conduit, write an email to `timo@koesters.xyz`, ask us
> in `#conduit:fachschaften.org` or [open an issue on GitLab](https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/issues/new).

## Installing Conduit

Although you might be able to compile Conduit for Windows, we do recommend running it on a linux server. We therefore
only offer Linux binaries.

You may simply download the binary that fits your machine. Run `uname -m` to see what you need. Now copy the right url:

| CPU Architecture                            | Download stable version        | Download development version |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| x84_64 / amd64 (Most servers and computers) | [Download][x84_64-musl-master] | [Download][x84_64-musl-next] |
| armv6                                       | [Download][armv6-musl-master]  | [Download][armv6-musl-next]  |
| armv7 (e.g. Raspberry Pi by default)        | [Download][armv7-musl-master]  | [Download][armv7-musl-next]  |
| armv8 / aarch64                             | [Download][armv8-musl-master]  | [Download][armv8-musl-next]  |

[x84_64-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
[armv6-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv7-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv8-musl-master]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/conduit-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
[x84_64-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
[armv6-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:arm-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv7-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf?job=build:release:cargo:armv7-unknown-linux-musleabihf
[armv8-musl-next]: https://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/jobs/artifacts/next/raw/conduit-aarch64-unknown-linux-musl?job=build:release:cargo:aarch64-unknown-linux-musl

```bash
$ sudo wget -O /usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit <url>
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit
```

Alternatively, you may compile the binary yourself

```bash
$ sudo apt install libclang-dev build-essential
```

```bash
$ cargo build --release
```

Note that this currently requires Rust 1.50.

If you want to cross compile Conduit to another architecture, read the [Cross-Compile Guide](cross/README.md).

## Adding a Conduit user

While Conduit can run as any user it is usually better to use dedicated users for different services. This also allows
you to make sure that the file permissions are correctly set up.

In Debian you can use this command to create a Conduit user:

```bash
sudo adduser --system conduit --no-create-home
```

## Setting up a systemd service

Now we'll set up a systemd service for Conduit, so it's easy to start/stop Conduit and set it to autostart when your
server reboots. Simply paste the default systemd service you can find below into
`/etc/systemd/system/conduit.service`.

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Conduit Matrix Server
After=network.target

[Service]
Environment="CONDUIT_CONFIG=/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml"
User=conduit
Group=nogroup
Restart=always
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/matrix-conduit

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Finally, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

## Creating the Conduit configuration file

Now we need to create the Conduit's config file in `/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`. Paste this in **and take a moment
to read it. You need to change at least the server name.**

```toml
[global]
# The server_name is the pretty name of this server. It is used as a suffix for user
# and room ids. Examples: matrix.org, conduit.rs

# The Conduit server needs all /_matrix/ requests to be reachable at
# https://your.server.name/ on port 443 (client-server) and 8448 (federation).

# If that's not possible for you, you can create /.well-known files to redirect
# requests. See
# https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest#get-well-known-matrix-client
# and
# https://matrix.org/docs/spec/server_server/r0.1.4#get-well-known-matrix-server
# for more information

# YOU NEED TO EDIT THIS
#server_name = "your.server.name"

# This is the only directory where Conduit will save its data
database_path = "/var/lib/matrix-conduit/"
database_backend = "rocksdb"

# The port Conduit will be running on. You need to set up a reverse proxy in
# your web server (e.g. apache or nginx), so all requests to /_matrix on port
# 443 and 8448 will be forwarded to the Conduit instance running on this port
# Docker users: Don't change this, you'll need to map an external port to this.
port = 6167

# Max size for uploads
max_request_size = 20_000_000 # in bytes

# Enables registration. If set to false, no users can register on this server.
allow_registration = true

allow_federation = true

trusted_servers = ["matrix.org"]

#max_concurrent_requests = 100 # How many requests Conduit sends to other servers at the same time
#log = "info,state_res=warn,rocket=off,_=off,sled=off"

address = "127.0.0.1" # This makes sure Conduit can only be reached using the reverse proxy
#address = "0.0.0.0" # If Conduit is running in a container, make sure the reverse proxy (ie. Traefik) can reach it.
```

## Setting the correct file permissions

As we are using a Conduit specific user we need to allow it to read the config. To do that you can run this command on
Debian:

```bash
sudo chown -R conduit:nogroup /etc/matrix-conduit
```

If you use the default database path you also need to run this:

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/matrix-conduit/conduit_db
sudo chown -R conduit:nogroup /var/lib/matrix-conduit/conduit_db
```

## Setting up the Reverse Proxy

This depends on whether you use Apache, Nginx or another web server.

### Apache

Create `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/050-conduit.conf` and copy-and-paste this:

```apache
Listen 8448

<VirtualHost *:443 *:8448>

ServerName your.server.name # EDIT THIS

AllowEncodedSlashes NoDecode
ProxyPass /_matrix/ http://127.0.0.1:6167/_matrix/ nocanon
ProxyPassReverse /_matrix/ http://127.0.0.1:6167/_matrix/

</VirtualHost>
```

**You need to make some edits again.** When you are done, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl reload apache2
```

### Nginx

If you use Nginx and not Apache, add the following server section inside the http section of `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:443 ssl http2;
    listen 8448 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:8448 ssl http2;
    server_name your.server.name; # EDIT THIS
    merge_slashes off;

    location /_matrix/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:6167$request_uri;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        proxy_buffering off;
    }

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/fullchain.pem; # EDIT THIS
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/privkey.pem; # EDIT THIS
    ssl_trusted_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/your.server.name/chain.pem; # EDIT THIS
    include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf;
}
```

**You need to make some edits again.** When you are done, run

```bash
$ sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## SSL Certificate

The easiest way to get an SSL certificate, if you don't have one already, is to install `certbot` and run this:

```bash
$ sudo certbot -d your.server.name
```

## You're done!

Now you can start Conduit with:

```bash
$ sudo systemctl start conduit
```

Set it to start automatically when your system boots with:

```bash
$ sudo systemctl enable conduit
```

## How do I know it works?

You can open <https://app.element.io>, enter your homeserver and try to register.

You can also use these commands as a quick health check.

```bash
$ curl https://your.server.name/_matrix/client/versions
$ curl https://your.server.name:8448/_matrix/client/versions
```

- To check if your server can talk with other homeservers, you can use the [Matrix Federation Tester](https://federationtester.matrix.org/)

# What's next?

## Audio/Video calls

For Audio/Video call functionality see the [TURN Guide](TURN.md).

## Appservices

If you want to set up an appservice, take a look at the [Appservice Guide](APPSERVICES.md).
