docker/README.md, before:

# Deploy using Docker

> **Note:** To run and use Conduit you should probably use it with a Domain or Subdomain behind a reverse proxy (like Nginx, Traefik, Apache, ...) with a Lets Encrypt certificate.


## Docker

### Build & Dockerfile

The Dockerfile provided by Conduit has two stages, each of which creates an image.
1. **Builder:** Builds the binary from local context or by cloning a git revision from the official repository.
2. **Runtime:** Copies the built binary from **Builder** and sets up the runtime environment, like creating a volume to persist the database and applying the correct permissions.

The Dockerfile includes a few build arguments that should be supplied when building it.

``` Dockerfile
ARG LOCAL=false
ARG CREATED
ARG VERSION
ARG GIT_REF=origin/master
```

- **CREATED:** Date and time as string (date-time as defined by RFC 3339). Will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.created`. Supply by it like this `$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ')`
- **VERSION:** The SemVer version of Conduit, which is in the image. Will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.version`. If you have a `Cargo.toml` in your build context, you can get it with `$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml)`
- **LOCAL:** *(Optional)* A boolean value, specifies if the local build context should be used, or if the official repository will be cloned. If not supplied with the build command, it will default to `false`.
- **GIT_REF:** *(Optional)* A git ref, like `HEAD` or a commit ID. The supplied ref will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.revision` and will be the ref that is cloned from the repository when not building from the local context. If not supplied with the build command, it will default to `origin/master`.

To build the image you can use the following command

``` bash
docker build . -t matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest --build-arg CREATED=$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ') --build-arg VERSION=$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml)
```

which also will tag the resulting image as `matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest`.
**Note:** it ommits the two optional `build-arg`s.


### Run

After building the image you can simply run it with

``` bash
docker run -d -p 8448:8000 -v db:/srv/conduit/.local/share/conduit -e CONDUIT_SERVER_NAME="localhost:8000" matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest
```

For detached mode, you also need to use the `-d` flag. You can pass in more env vars as are shown here, for an overview of possible values, you can take a look at the `docker-compose.yml` file.
If you just want to test Conduit for a short time, you can use the `--rm` flag, which will clean up everything related to your container after you stop it.


## Docker-compose

If the docker command is not for you or your setup, you can also use one of the provided `docker-compose` files. Depending on your proxy setup, use the [`docker-compose.traefik.yml`](docker-compose.traefik.yml) including [`docker-compose.override.traefik.yml`](docker-compose.override.traefik.yml) or the normal [`docker-compose.yml`](../docker-compose.yml) for every other reverse proxy.


### Build

To build the Conduit image with docker-compose, you first need to open and modify the `docker-compose.yml` file. There you need to comment the `image:` option and uncomment the `build:` option. Then call docker-compose with:

``` bash
CREATED=$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ') VERSION=$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml) docker-compose up
```

This will also start the container right afterwards, so if want it to run in detached mode, you also should use the `-d` flag. For possible `build-args`, please take a look at the above `Build & Dockerfile` section.


### Run

If you already have built the image, you can just start the container and everything else in the compose file in detached mode with:

``` bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Commit message:

Update docker command in README Mention the need for a config.

docker/README.md, after:

# Deploy using Docker

> **Note:** To run and use Conduit you should probably use it with a Domain or Subdomain behind a reverse proxy (like Nginx, Traefik, Apache, ...) with a Lets Encrypt certificate.


## Docker

### Build & Dockerfile

The Dockerfile provided by Conduit has two stages, each of which creates an image.
1. **Builder:** Builds the binary from local context or by cloning a git revision from the official repository.
2. **Runtime:** Copies the built binary from **Builder** and sets up the runtime environment, like creating a volume to persist the database and applying the correct permissions.

The Dockerfile includes a few build arguments that should be supplied when building it.

``` Dockerfile
ARG LOCAL=false
ARG CREATED
ARG VERSION
ARG GIT_REF=origin/master
```

- **CREATED:** Date and time as string (date-time as defined by RFC 3339). Will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.created`. Supply by it like this `$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ')`
- **VERSION:** The SemVer version of Conduit, which is in the image. Will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.version`. If you have a `Cargo.toml` in your build context, you can get it with `$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml)`
- **LOCAL:** *(Optional)* A boolean value, specifies if the local build context should be used, or if the official repository will be cloned. If not supplied with the build command, it will default to `false`.
- **GIT_REF:** *(Optional)* A git ref, like `HEAD` or a commit ID. The supplied ref will be used to create the Open Container Initiative compliant label `org.opencontainers.image.revision` and will be the ref that is cloned from the repository when not building from the local context. If not supplied with the build command, it will default to `origin/master`.

To build the image you can use the following command

``` bash
docker build . -t matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest --build-arg CREATED=$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ') --build-arg VERSION=$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml)
```

which also will tag the resulting image as `matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest`.
**Note:** it ommits the two optional `build-arg`s.


### Run

After building the image you can simply run it with

``` bash
docker run -d -p 8448:8000 -v ~/conduit.toml:/srv/conduit/conduit.toml -v db:/srv/conduit/.local/share/conduit matrixconduit/matrix-conduit:latest
```

For detached mode, you also need to use the `-d` flag. You also need to supply a `conduit.toml` config file, you can find an example [here](../conduit-example.toml).
You can pass in more env vars as are shown here, for an overview of possible values, you can take a look at the `docker-compose.yml` file.
If you just want to test Conduit for a short time, you can use the `--rm` flag, which will clean up everything related to your container after you stop it.


## Docker-compose

If the docker command is not for you or your setup, you can also use one of the provided `docker-compose` files. Depending on your proxy setup, use the [`docker-compose.traefik.yml`](docker-compose.traefik.yml) including [`docker-compose.override.traefik.yml`](docker-compose.override.traefik.yml) or the normal [`docker-compose.yml`](../docker-compose.yml) for every other reverse proxy.


### Build

To build the Conduit image with docker-compose, you first need to open and modify the `docker-compose.yml` file. There you need to comment the `image:` option and uncomment the `build:` option. Then call docker-compose with:

``` bash
CREATED=$(date -u +'%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ') VERSION=$(grep -m1 -o '[0-9].[0-9].[0-9]' Cargo.toml) docker-compose up
```

This will also start the container right afterwards, so if want it to run in detached mode, you also should use the `-d` flag. For possible `build-args`, please take a look at the above `Build & Dockerfile` section.


### Run

If you already have built the image, you can just start the container and everything else in the compose file in detached mode with:

``` bash
docker-compose up -d
```
