debian/README.md, before:

Conduit for Debian
==================

Configuration
-------------

When installed, Debconf generates the configuration of the homeserver
(host)name, the address and port it listens on. This configuration ends up in
`/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`.

You can tweak more detailed settings by uncommenting and setting the variables
in `/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`. This involves settings such as the maximum
file size for download/upload, enabling federation, etc.

Running
-------

The package uses the `matrix-conduit.service` systemd unit file to start and
stop Conduit. It loads the configuration file mentioned above to set up the
environment before running the server.

This package assumes by default that Conduit will be placed behind a reverse
proxy such as Apache or nginx. This default deployment entails just listening
on `127.0.0.1` and the free port `6167` and is reachable via a client using the URL
<http://localhost:6167>.

At a later stage this packaging may support also setting up TLS and running
stand-alone.  In this case, however, you need to set up some certificates and
renewal, for it to work properly.

Commit message:

Add section about how to download/install/deploy
This refers to `DEPLOY.md` as to not duplicate the information.

debian/README.md, after:

Conduit for Debian
==================

Installation
------------

Information about downloading, building and deploying the Debian package, see
the "Installing Conduit" section in [DEPLOY.md](../DEPLOY.md).
All following sections until "Setting up the Reverse Proxy" be ignored because
this is handled automatically by the packaging.

Configuration
-------------

When installed, Debconf generates the configuration of the homeserver
(host)name, the address and port it listens on. This configuration ends up in
`/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`.

You can tweak more detailed settings by uncommenting and setting the variables
in `/etc/matrix-conduit/conduit.toml`. This involves settings such as the maximum
file size for download/upload, enabling federation, etc.

Running
-------

The package uses the `matrix-conduit.service` systemd unit file to start and
stop Conduit. It loads the configuration file mentioned above to set up the
environment before running the server.

This package assumes by default that Conduit will be placed behind a reverse
proxy such as Apache or nginx. This default deployment entails just listening
on `127.0.0.1` and the free port `6167` and is reachable via a client using the URL
<http://localhost:6167>.

At a later stage this packaging may support also setting up TLS and running
stand-alone.  In this case, however, you need to set up some certificates and
renewal, for it to work properly.
